The President:
Over the past 20 months, we've been fighting not just to create
more jobs today, but to rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation.
Our future as a nation depends
on making sure that the jobs and
industries of the 21st century
take root here in America.
And there is perhaps no industry
with more potential to create
jobs now -- and growth in the coming years --
than clean energy.
For decades, we've talked about
the importance of ending our
dependence on foreign oil and
pursuing new kinds of energy,
like wind and solar power.
But for just as long, progress
had been prevented at every turn
by the special interests and
their allies in Washington.
So, year after year, our
dependence on foreign oil grew.
Families have been held hostage
to spikes in gas prices.
Good manufacturing jobs have
gone overseas.
And we've seen companies produce
new energy technologies and
high-skilled jobs not in
America,
but in countries like China,
India and Germany.
That's why it was essential -- for our economy, our security,
and our planet -- that we finally tackle this challenge.
That's why, since we took office,
my administration has made a
historic commitment to promote
clean energy technology.
This will mean hundreds of
thousands of new American jobs
by 2012.
Jobs for contractors to install
energy-saving windows and insulation.
Jobs for factory workers to
build high-tech vehicle
batteries, electric cars, and
hybrid trucks.
Jobs for engineers and
construction crews to create
wind farms and solar plants that
are going to double the
renewable energy we can generate
in this country.
These are the jobs building the
future.
For example, I want share with
you one new development,
made possible by the clean
energy incentives that we've launched.
This month, in the Mojave
Desert,
a company called BrightSource
plans to break ground on a
revolutionary new type of solar
power plant.
It's going to put about a
thousand people to work building
a state-of-the-art facility.
And when it's complete, it will
turn sunlight into the energy
that will power up to 140,000
homes --
the largest such plant in the
world.
Not in China.
Not in India.
But in California.
With projects like this one, and
others across this country,
we are staking our claim to
continued leadership in the new
global economy.
And we're putting Americans to
work producing clean,
home-grown American energy that
will help lower our reliance on
foreign oil and protect our
planet for future generations.
Now, there are some in Washington who want to shut them down.
In fact, in the Pledge they
recently released,
the Republican leadership is
promising to scrap all the
incentives for clean energy
projects,
including those currently
underway --
even with all the jobs and
potential that they hold.
This doesn't make sense for our
economy.
It doesn't make sense for
Americans who are looking for jobs.
And it doesn't make sense for
our future.
To go backwards and scrap these
plans means handing the
competitive edge to China and
other nations.
It means that we'll grow even
more dependent on foreign oil.
And, at a time of economic
hardship,
it means forgoing jobs we
desperately need.
In fact, shutting down just this
one project would cost about a
thousand jobs.
That's what's at stake in this
debate.
We can go back to the failed
energy policies that profited
the oil companies but weakened
our country.
We can go back to the days when
promising industries got set up overseas.
Or we can go after new jobs in
growing industries.
We can spur innovation and help make our economy more competitive.
We know the choice that's right
for America.
We need to do what we've always
done --
put our ingenuity and can do
spirit to work to fight for a
brighter future.
Thanks.